Cluster.OBeu
============

Î•stimate and return the necessary parameters for cluster analysis
visualizations, used in [OpenBudgets.eu](http://openbudgets.eu/). It
involves a set of techniques and algorithms used to find and divide into
groups the Budget data of municipalities across Europe, described by the
[OpenBudgets.eu data model](https://github.com/openbudgets/data-model).

The available clustering algorithms are hierarchical, kmeans from R
base, pam, clara, fuzzy from [cluster
package](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=cluster) and model based
algorithms from [mclust
package](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=mclust). It can be used to
find the appropriate clustering algorithm and/or the appropriate
clustering number of the input data according to the internal and
stability measures from [clValid
package](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=clValid).

This package can generally be used to estimate clustering parameters,
extract and convert them to JSON format and use them as input in a
different graphical interface and also can be used in data that are not
described by the [OpenBudgets.eu data
model](https://github.com/openbudgets/data-model).

    # install Cluster.OBeu- cran stable version
    install.packages(Cluster.OBeu) 
    # or
    # alternatively install the development version from github
    devtools::install_github("okgreece/Cluster.OBeu")

Load library `Cluster.OBeu`

    library(Cluster.OBeu)

Cluster Analysis in a call
==========================

`cl.analysis` can be used to estimate clustering model parameters and/or
number of clusters needed for visualization of clusters and other
clustering measures as list object.

    cluster_data = cl.analysis( sample_city_data, cl.aggregate = "sum", 
                                cl.meth = "pam", clust.numb = NULL, dist = "euclidean", tojson = T) # json string format

    jsonlite::prettify(cluster_data) # use prettify of jsonlite library to add indentation to the returned JSON string

Cluster Analysis on OpenBudgets.eu platform
===========================================

`open_spending.cl` is designed to estimate and return the clustering
model measures of [OpenBudgets.eu](http://openbudgets.eu/) datasets.

The input data must be a JSON link according to the [OpenBudgets.eu data
model](https://github.com/openbudgets/data-model). There are different
parameters that a user could specify, e.g. `dimensions`,
`measured.dimensions` and `amounts` should be defined by the user, to
form the dimensions of the dataset. `open_spending.cl` estimates and
returns the json data that are described with the [OpenBudgets.eu data
model](https://github.com/openbudgets/data-model), using `cl.analysis`
function.

    #Store the link in a variable
    aragon_income='http://apps.openbudgets.eu/api/3/cubes/aragon-2007-income__3209b/aggregate?drilldown=fundingClassification.prefLabel%7CeconomicClassification.prefLabel&aggregates=amount.sum'

    clustering = open_spending.cl(
      json_data =  aragon_income, 
      dimensions ="economicClassification.prefLabel",
      amounts = "amount.sum",
      measured.dimensions = "fundingClassification.prefLabel",
      cl.method="kmeans" 
      )
    # Pretty output using prettify of jsonlite library
    jsonlite::prettify(clustering)
